If I ever decide to become a crime-fighting sh*t swizzler, who rooms with a bunch of other little whiners at Neverland Mansion with some creepy, old, bald, Heaven's Gate-looking motherf*cker... on that day, I'll send your shiny, happy ass a friend request.
How can I help you... besides luring children into a panel van?
Weasel said: You look like an avocado had sex with an older, more disgusting avocado.
I want to die a natural death at the age of 102 - like the city of Detroit.
Oh, I so pity the dude who pressures her into prom sex.
Weasel said: "Star in your own horror films. Because you look like Freddy Krueger face-f*cked a topographical map of Utah.""
Sir, what does Miss Mama June taste like? Like two hobos f*cking in a shoe filled with piss.
Vanessa said: "Say the magic words, Fat Gandolf!"
You're about to be killed by a zamboni.
I will shoot your f*cking cat!
Sure, I may be stuck looking like pepperoni flatbread, but at least f*ckface won't heal from that.
Mooseknuckle!
Big Chrome Cock Gobbler!
Wheezing bag of dick tits!
Crime fighting shit swizzler!
I'll slap the bitch out of you!
A british shitstick!
Little Spider Monkey!
Smells like old lady pants in here!
Ever hear David Beckham speak? Its like he mouth sexed a can of helium!
From the studio that inexplicably sewed his fucking mouth shut the first time comes five-time Academy Award viewer, Ryan Reynolds in an eHarmony date with destiny. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you... me! Deadpool.
I know right? You're probably thinking, "Whose balls did I have to fondle to get my very own movie"? I can't tell you his name, but it rhymes with "Polverine."
I had another Liam Neeson nightmare. I kidnapped his daughter and he just wasn't having it. They made three of those movies. At some point you have to wonder if he's just a bad parent.
Oh, like there's something wrong with eating before sundown or saving money. No, you know that bad guy that you let go? He's got my girl. You're gonna help me get her back.
A fourth wall break inside a fourth wall break? That's like, sixteen walls.
Now, I'm about to do to you what Limp Bizkit did to music in the late 90s.
You're probably thinking, "My boyfriend said this was a superhero movie but that guy in the suit just turned that other guy into a fucking kabab!" Well, I may be super, but I'm no hero. And yeah, technically, this is a murder. But some of the best love stories start with a murder. And that's exactly what this is, a love story. And to tell it right... I gotta take you back to long before I squeezed this ass into red spandex.
Whatever they did to me made me totally indestructible... and completely unfuckable.
Maximum effort.
Suck a cock.
I'd go with you, but... I don't want to.
Bad Deadpool! Good Deadpool.